The goal of the homework assignments is to implement a fully functional web application,
using different software architecture styles and applying the concepts covered in the lectures.
The application should focus on analyzing the Crypto Exchanges and include historical data
from international crypto exchanges (such as Binance, Coinbase, Kraken, and others) for the
top 1000 active cryptocurrencies. The data to be processed should cover at least the last
10 years on a daily basis.
In this first homework, you will focus on data processing using the Pipe and Filter architecture.
Specifically, you will need to automate the process of downloading and transforming data
from a crypto exchange, ensuring that only the necessary information is kept (for example:
price, volume, market capitalization and change, liquidation, etc.) and that the data is properly
formatted for further analysis.
The following tasks will be required:
1. Form your team (max 3 members).
2. Write a short description of the entire project that you will develop during the semester
(about one page long). State what your application will be about, which technologies you
will use, where you will get the data from, which data you will process, how you will process
and store the data and what are the expected results and benefits of your project.
• Your task is to research and find a suitable source and method for collecting the data,
implement code for data collection and also understand where you extracted the data
from (centralized exchanges, decentralized exchanges, directly from protocol/blockchain)
and what kind of data it is (in what format).
• Research exchanges and sources for collecting data (publicly available and free APIs,
web scraping, blockchain reading, etc.), list the options you will explore, and explain
which option you have chosen and why.
3. Provide a specification of functional and non-functional requirements for the entire
project that you will develop during the semester (homeworks). State which requirements
are functional and which are non-functional. Include user scenarios, personas, and
descriptive narratives to illustrate these requirements. The document should be 5-10
pages long.
4. Download the data you’ll use and populate your database1 with it. To do this, you should use
the pipe-and-filter dataflow architecture. You’ll need to define multiple simple, independent
functions (filters) to transform the data and combine them in such a way that the output
of each filter can be used as the input of another (the filters should be connected in a pipe).
The goal of these filters and the entire pipe should be to transform the data from the raw
format you downloaded them in to a format appropriate for input into a database.
The necessary transformations should include the following steps:
(a) Filter 1: Automatically download the symbol list of the top 1000 active
cryptocurrencies
• Choose data source(s) and automatically extract the list of the top 1000
active symbols.
1
If you aren’t confident in your database skills, you can also use a structured file (CSV, Excel, JSON) or another
non-relational approach to store the data.
1
Software Design and Architecture
• Exclude invalid cryptocurrencies: delisted, low liquidity, duplicates between
exchanges, or pairs with unstable quote currencies, without manual intervention.
(b) Filter 2: Check the last date of available data
• For each symbol retrieved in the first filter, check your database to see up to
which date the data for that cryptocurrency has already been collected.
• If there is no data, download at least the last 10 years (or the maximum allowed
by the currency) of daily OHLCV data (Open, High, Low, Close, Volume), Last
Price (24H), 24H Volume, 24H High, 24H Low, liquidity, and other information.
• If data exists, identify the last saved date and pass this information to the next
filter.
(c) Filter 3: Fill in the missing data
• For each cryptocurrency, use the symbol and the last available date (from
the second filter) to download all missing data up to the current date.
• Ensure that all new data is properly added or combined with the existing data in
the database.
• Make sure all information is properly formatted in a consistent format.
At the end of this process, the application should store the complete and updated data for
the crypto exchange you choose in the database, combining them with the previous data
and ensuring that all formatting is correct.
You can create multiple pipes if you’re using more than one data source. If you’re using
multiple pipes, you should use the same filters for the same transformation in both pipes
instead of creating new ones.
5. Maximum Points Challenge
• Implement a timer to measure how long it takes for your application to fully populate
an empty database with the exchange data. Optimize this process for maximum speed
and efficiency.
• Your team’s score will be scaled relative to the fastest time achieved. The bestperforming solution will set the benchmark, with other scores normalized against it.
Faster and more efficient solutions will receive the highest scores.
You can freely choose the programming language, framework, and database you will use. Python
is recommended for the following homework assignments because of the availability of libraries
suitable for data transformation and financial calculations.
Homework points are earned through live presentation, and the code is submitted
through a public repository on GitLab FINKI https://gitlab.finki.ukim.mk/. Projects
that are not presented, submitted via email, or attached as .zip files on GitLab FINKI
will not be accepted and graded.
Your public repository on GitLab FINKI should contain the documents with the project
description and requirements specification, the code for data transformation and loading, and the
initial data you are using. If you choose to use a file for storage, also upload the final processed
data. All files should be located in a folder named Homework 1.
The deadline for submitting the first homework is November 23, 2024. Please note that this
deadline is final and will not be extended under any circumstances.
